---
layout: post
comments: false
title: "Reflections"
description: "A short, depressing but honest, late night reflection on college life thus far."
author: Debashish Reang
thumbnail: "/assets/images/reang.jpg"
last_updated: "2019-12-09"
comments: true
---
I started college in July 2017 as an ambitious and wide-eyed young freshman or as a few would say, 'baccha'. My priorities after getting into college were very clear: I wanted to learn as much as I could and have a fun life -- only I did not know what I had signed up for and what the future had in store for me. I used to think that if I read one book every week, by the end of my degree I will have acquired enough knowledge to get into the best of graduate schools and be ahead of my peers. Now that I think about it, it is actually hilarious. Nothing could be further from the truth. My parents never graduated from high school. But, that did not stop them from giving me the best education and opportunities that they could. I can never be grateful enough for what they have done for me.

This post is a collection of my thoughts on the things I've done alright and the things that I got horribly wrong since starting college. It is going to be a long one -- full of depressing anecdotes and rants. I will first try to enumerate the list of things that I thought went wrong and then I'll list some of the things (only one actually) that I think went fine. Towards the end I'll also briefly talk about what I plan to do next and how I feel about the whole situation. Everything is from the point of **view of a third year undergraduate student**. I would argue that these thoughts are very much subject to change in the future, depending on life and my mood. ðŸ˜

Let me enumerate the list of things I got terribly wrong. I wish someone had told me about the right thing to do. I do not blame anyone, but it is what it is.

* **Doing what you love is justified despite your grades suffering.** This is one of the things that I wish I could go back in time and correct. I got so much into CS50x: Harvard's Introduction to Computer Science course offered via edX that my Freshman year courses took a real blow. I signed up for about 4 classes on edX and an online course on NPTEL in addition to the compulsory first year UG courses that I was required to do. I screwed up really bad because of this. At the time I did not realise what sort of an impact poor grades would have on someone. After all, seniors used to go around saying grades don't matter but what matters at the end of college is how many friends you've made and how well you grow up as a person. That may be true but my priorities were very clear. I do not know how I got so deviated from my goal. I started hating the core courses because I thought they were not interesting enough. The courses were not delivered to me the way I wanted them to be. This is where it all started to go downhill, even to this day. Things got so much out of hand -- I remember walking into the Engineering Drawing final exam and praying that the exam get over as soon as possible because I did not care what grade I got in that course, I just wanted to get over with it. I don't even remember what the final exam paper was like. I got a B in that course. For reference [here](/assets/docs/IITK_Recruitment_Guide_2019-20.pdf) is the IIT Kanpur grading system. Only, later (now actually) would I realise the value of focussing on what is at hand and working on it.

> Life lesson: **Don't bite more than you can chew.**

* **Do it now, or you will never be able to do it.** I wish I had the wisdom to understand that this is fundamentally wrong. The correct way to say this would be 'Do the things that you're **required** to do. Only after you do well in those try to do extraneous things'. It is never too late to learn a skill or catch up on a new programming language or a new machine learning paradigm. People are in so much hurry that they miss out on the fundamental goal of learning -- to learn, and to learn things thoroughly. A dear professor actually summed it up beautifully. In her words, "you should first do what you're required to do. Then you can do all the side projects and the extraneous things. If you cannot do what is asked of you properly, how can you expect to do well in the extra stuff and also, what credibility does it hold?" A dear friend advised to not have "too much on your plate". The Head of Department of Electrical Engineering advised me against taking excess workload and he actually cautioned that "things do not look so well". But, I did not listen to any of that and hence suffered. I wish I could say I am sorry, but this changes nothing.

> Life lesson: **Do not rush. There will always be time to do the things you love.**

* **Getting involved with a number of groups always helps.** This is something that most people get wrong. I am not saying that one should not be a part of any group at all. But, personally I feel that getting associated with a varied number of groups affected me in a negative way. Of course, there are many positive things about being a part of different groups, only that in my case it did more harm than good. Just to give you an idea of the groups I was associated with on campus apart from my academics -- Counselling Service, Entrepreneurship Cell, Election Commission, Antaragni, and Techkriti. It is very much possible that I missed out a few. No, that's not in a single year. I used to take the non academic assignments very seriously, since you got to report things to real people and you got to explain your contribution. I am not sure what the long term repercussions of this would be, but as it stands this contributed to the killing of grades to some extent. I was more excited about non-academic stuff than academics. My alumni buddy once asked me, "If you are certain that you want to get a PhD and be a Professor, why did you get into so many things? How will getting more number of footfalls help you get into a good graduate school? How can you get deviated so much?" I had no answers to any of these. I still do not have any answer till this day. But, I want to thank him for reminding me what is important.

> Life lesson: **Focus on one thing, do it right before moving on to others.**

* **Your grades don't matter a lot.** I got this horribly wrong. I did not understand the whole deal of grades until very recently. I had a hard time in the internship interviews, the (good) companies won't even shortlist me because they had specific grade cutoffs. Many people got interviews and internship offers despite of low grades but in general having a wholesome grade just opens up so many opportunities. Having a good grade makes life much easier as compared to having a poor grade. Why I got into the whole business of campus interviews for internships is another matter of discussion. I never fancied myself working for a company, but I got into it anyways for whatever reason. I am happy that I withdrew from the internship drive. I mean I would love to work at Google Brain Team / Google Research or Facebook AI Research and the like. But, I cannot imagine myself working for some bank or some consulting multi-national corporation.

* **Procrastination 'can kill' you.** If you are a master procrastinator like me, you probably are having a bad time in life. I feel like I cannot breathe right now. Life is so overwhelming, I procrastinate all day long. I should have studied more in college. I have come to the sad realisation that all I've been doing is waste time and did not actually devote myself to getting something done. I did not study for exams on time and hence did poorly in all the exams with the exception of a few courses. I remember one time -- I had no idea what was in the course until the night before exams. I used to say to myself that it is okay, since there is a gap of 3 days before that exam so I'll get a lot of work done. However, it did not go exactly as I thought. In fact, I stayed up all night watching "Dear Zindagi" instead of studying. I could not sleep because I was too worried that I'll fail. 3 hours before the exam, something kicked in and I started memorising whatever I could. I think I got a D in that course. If there is one thing that I have learnt after all the screw ups it is this -- studying a day before the exam does not help at all, except it might get you a D instead of an F.

Things that went right (at least according to me).
* **Got to meet new, awesome people.** This probably is the only good thing that has happened in college, so far. I got to meet and be friends with one of the best minds of the country. It is highly probable that the bond we all share would last a lifetime. Even though everyone has a different career trajectory, people here are generally nice and helpful. All you need to do is ask and someone or the other will help you out. I have also managed to pitch my research proposal to three professors and none of them actually turned down my proposal. And I am in a dilemma about what to do with the workload now. God! Please don't be like me.

**That's it for now. Thanks for reading, I appreciate it.**
