---
layout: blog
title:  "Few words on my first encounter with the English language."
date:   2018-09-25 6:00:28 +0530
category: [life]
tags: [english, love]
comments: true
---
India now claims to be the world's second-largest English-speaking country. The most reliable estimate is around 10% of its population or 125 million people, second only to the US and expected to quadruple in the next decade.<sup><a href="https://www.bbc.com/news/magazine-20500312">[1]</a></sup>

It is quite shocking but true that I wasn't one of those 125 million people until few years ago. From Grade I until Grade V, I studied in a school where the primary medium of instruction was `Bangla`. To me and the people around me, being able to speak 'Inglish' was a royalty then, and we looked upon them as some kind of superior being. I remember scoring full or near-about-full marks in school English Examination but not being able to frame proper sentences myself. You might be wondering, *"How did that happen?"*

Well, as for the reason, I do NOT know, honestly. Fortunately, things did change for me and I finally got the opportunity to be close to my 'crush', 'love', 'royalty', whatever you'd like to call it. I got into 'reputed-English medium' school, if you can call it that. I faintly remember writing `ত্রিভুজ` for `triangle` in the admission test. I got in anyway. Things did slowly turn my way but not without some incidences. The one that I remember clearly was `not being able to write the ingredients needed to make chicken curry`. It wasn't my fault, was it? I did not know what Homework meant then - but, of course, the teacher won't listen and things didn't exactly turn out as expected.

I have since read tons of English books, blogs, articles, papers, and watched videos and movies. Everything is cool now, I no longer feel that sense of 'royalty' and am starting to realise the beauty and uniqueness every language and culture has. Yet, somewhere it occurred to me that our society or the world in general is so divided in terms of opportunity and sometimes it seem unfair to certain sections of the society.

The friends I briefly mentioned still do not have the best means and do not have access to good education. They did not receive the care and affection that I received. They certainly did not get the opportunity I got, but the question still remains, "What if everyone was to get equal opportunity at least, no matter what the end results are?". I tend to not dwell upon much on these topics, yet it comes up, because somewhere those people are the reason of my being and who I am.

I would like to think that I am really fortunate enough to have been able to witness many things in this short span of `life`. I have seen the streets of Guwahati, the villages of Kanpur, the villages of Tripura, the thriving city of Guwahati overlooking the settlements of the unfortunate ones. Lucknow with it's love failed to curb the division in the society - on one side of the city is the Chaudhary Charan Singh International airport, while few miles away from it you can find people lying on streets without a roof over their heads.

Thanks for reading. Let me know your thoughts in the comments section.
