---
layout: blog
title: "Love and Being Human."
tags: [love]
category: "love"
date: 2018-09-26 6:00:28 +0530
author: "Debashish Reang"
comments: true
---

**Attention**<br>
The following contains few statements that you might disagree with, so be warned!

The dictionary meaning of 'emotion': a strong feeling deriving from one's circumstances, mood, or relationships with others.

Everyone, more or less understand the meaning of the word. But the problem is that we all have sort of different understanding as regard to its exact meaning. It is possible that difference in understanding meaning of the word isn't a problem at all. Nonetheless, when the `emotions` go out of 'rational-reasoning', as I'd like to call it, things may sometimes go haywire.

'Love' is a subset of emotion. Like every other emotion, everyone have their own understanding and interpretation of 'Love'. Just to be really `geeky`, Google returns `a strong feeling of affection` when you hit return on search key 'Love'. There are many types of love, just like every other humanly thing- the more choices, the better right? Some people say being in love is one of the most beautiful feelings, while the others say 'Pyaar Ek Dhoka Hai!'. Whatever the perception of people, the fact remains, that when two people are in love they have some sort of affection for each other, be it genuine or not-so-genuine. There are also cases where falling in love ruined lives, reported cases of incidences that happened because people showed affection in public or the like.

No scholar or philosopher, to my knowledge, have so far been able to definitively say what it means to be in love. Days are marked on calendar celebrating love, memorials are built, people remember those who made valuable sacrifice and they are celebrated, but none actually know what it means to be in love.

Mandy Len Catron hilariously descibes, "Most of us will probably fall in love a few times over the course of our lives, and in the English language, this metaphor, falling, is really the main way that we talk about that experience. I don't know about you, but when I conceptualize this metaphor, what I picture is straight out of a cartoon -- like there's a man, he's walking down the sidewalk, without realizing it, he crosses over an open manhole, and he just plummets into the sewer below. And I picture it this way because falling is not jumping. Falling is accidental, it's uncontrollable. It's something that happens to us without our consent. And this -- this is the main way we talk about starting a new relationship."<a href="https://www.ted.com/talks/mandy_len_catron_a_better_way_to_talk_about_love"><sup>[1]</sup></a>

That's so much for love. You must have realised at some point in life that there are times when you feel strange about the way things are and you have no idea what you feel or why you feel that way, it's just that you feel it, that's all. There is no doubt that human emotions are complex - I mean have do you recall feeling a sense of happiness after you get good food or feeling low after that `bad food` in dining hall. Sometimes we feel happy for no reason at all and sometimes we feel low, so much for human emotions.

To quote Zakir Khan
> We are a generation of broken hearts and broken people

Thanks for reading, do let me know other 'strange-feelings'. The conclusion and summary of these thoughts would be in a later article.
