---
layout: blog
title: "Treasure Hunt: A night full of surprises and mind gruelling clues."
date:  2018-10-01 6:00:28 +0530
category: [life]
tags: [treasure, hunt]
comments: true
---
Every year Quiz Club (QC-IITK), English Literary Society (ELS) and Hindi Sahitya Sabha (HSS) of IIT Kanpur under the purview of Students' Gymkhana, jointly organize Treasure Hunt for the Freshmen.

The format of the event is this: The Event kicks off with 'Scavanger Hunt' wherein you are given one hour to collect all sorts of things like 6-inch heels, Bhagavad Gita, Bank Balance sheet with balance like Rupees 69.00, Toilet paper rolls and the list goes on and on. After that about 30-40 top teams are selected for the main stage Treasure Hunt.

> Spoiler: Even the eliminated teams can join other teams and continue to take part

In the main stage you are given clues pertaining to specific locations and if you think you are in the right location, yo have to explain to one of the organizers your logic, i.e., how did you come up with that answer and all... If you get it right, you are given the next clue and this process goes on and on. You are allowed to use any resource that you want.

The event usually start at around 20:30 in the evening until 8:00 or 8:30 the next day. Teams grill their minds and solve clues after clues, deciphering the logic behind things. About 10 or 12 clues are made every year, which are all original, some with multiple authors.

### Treasure Hunt 2018
This year the event kicked off at about 21:00 of 01-10-2018. We started with the 'Scavenger Hunt' which had all sorts of weird things. Some of the things that I can recall included Aloe Vera Flavored condoms, Bank Balance of Rs. 69.00, reciting Hanuman Chalisa (not a thing, right?), Toilet Paper Rolls, 6-inch heels, 4 different shades of lip stick etc. totalling to 45. They were given 1 hour to collect as many items as possible, after which we started tallying their scores amidst all chaos. The chaos was something I didn't expect, but we got around it eventually.

I was surprised to see so many people coming out to take part. If my estimate isn't wrong the number should be about 700, yeah that's right 700 over-excited Freshmen coming out to take part. The top 35 teams were shortlisted but I suspect those who had interest joined other teams as well which is exactly what we wanted. The aim of the event wasn't to eliminate particular teams and include the rest. We wanted it to be as inclusive and fun as possible.

The main event started at about 2:00 of 02-10-2018. It had a total of 10 clues to solve. We had to cut out two clues due to time constraints. Now, I won't go through each one of them, but here is an easy one (may be not) that I found interesting:

>From two years away from moon, they came in as warriors. With tooth and nail they fought, with glory they conquered the world. They left me behind as souvenir for the ones who came next. The seeds they sowed have grown so big, into trees of valour. Come find me here beyond the loop of life to find the answer of your quest.

### Spoiler Ahead:
So the answer is : Park '67.
How did I get there? Let me walk you through. So the line "From two years away from moon, they came in as warriors" -- Man landed on moon in 1969, two years away makes it 1967. 'They came in', who did? The 1967 batch students.

Next "With tooth and nail they fought, with glory they conquered the world"-- They did fight hard, everyone fights hard during college or in life in general, and yes they did conquer the world.

"They left me behind as souvenir for the ones who came next"-- They left something behind, this is the crux of the clue. So they left something behind. As a tradition every batch leaves something behind or contribute to the institute. Searching 'IITK Batch Initiatives' would have given the result 'Park 67'. The line "he seeds they sowed have grown so big, into trees of valour" resonates the seach result. So it is 'Park 67'.
### Spoiler Ends

This continued till morning. Fast forward the final clue led to 'Open Air Theatre' which we love to call 'OAT'. A team came first, one team came second, and three teams were declared joint third.

>The final clue was this: I have good relations in France, but not many in the whole of Europe sadly. If given an option  between Antaragni PR and MnP, I think I relate well with PR right now. Coming to the grains, I don't like rice or wheat, instead I prefer a darker variant. Come on these are too many clues, surely you know what I am. Now take my arm off and you have the answer.

caution: Lots of campus reference, but you can try solving it, if you cannot, feel free to message me or comment.

Here is the last one that I made, which wasn't a part of the Treasure Hunt but you can try working your mind around it.

<iframe src="https://res.cloudinary.com/reangdeba/image/upload/v1538473838/Treasure_Hunt_ClueLOL.pdf" width="100%" height="100%">
This browser does not support PDFs. Please download the PDF to view it: <a href="https://res.cloudinary.com/reangdeba/image/upload/v1538473838/Treasure_Hunt_ClueLOL.pdf">Download PDF</a>
</iframe>
