---
layout: post
comments: false
title: "College life so far and the road ahead"
author: Debashish Reang
thumbnail: "/assets/images/reang.jpg"
last_updated: "2019-12-05"
---
I started college in July 2017 as an ambitious and wide-eyed young freshman or as a few would say, 'baccha'. My priorities after getting into college were very clear: I wanted to learn as much as I could and have a fun life -- only I did not know what I had signed up for and what the future had in store for me. I used to think that if I read one book every week, by the end of my degree I will have acquired enough knowledge to get into the best of graduate schools and be ahead of my peers. Now that I think about it, it is actually hilarious. Nothing could be further from the truth. My parents never graduated from high school. But, that did not stop them from giving me the best education and opportunities that they could. I can never be grateful enough for what they have done for me.

This post is a collection of my thoughts on the things I've done alright and the things that I got horribly wrong since starting college. It is going to be a long one -- full of depressing anecdotes and rants. I will first try to enumerate the list of things that I thought went wrong and then I'll list some of the things (only one actually) that I think went fine. Towards the end I'll also briefly talk about what I plan to do next and how I feel about the whole situation. Everything is from the point of **view of a third year undergraduate student**. I would argue that these thoughts are very much subject to change in the future, depending on life and my mood. :grin:

Let me enumerate the list of things I got terribly wrong. I wish someone had told me about the right thing to do. I do not blame anyone, but it is what it is.

* **Doing what you love is justified despite your grades suffering.** This is one of the things that I wish I could go back in time and correct. I got so much into CS50x: Harvard's Introduction to Computer Science course offered via edX that my Freshman year courses took a real blow. I signed up for about 4 classes on edX and an online course on NPTEL in addition to the compulsory first year UG courses that I was required to do. I screwed up really bad because of this. At the time I did not realise what sort of an impact poor grades would have on someone. Afterall, seniors used to go around saying grades don't matter but what matters at the end of college is how many friends you've made and how well you grow up as a person. That may be true but my priorities were very clear. I do not know how I got so deviated from my goal. I started hating the core courses because I thought they were not interesting enough. The courses were not delivered to me the way I wanted them to be. This is where it all started to go downhill, even to this day. Things got so much out of hand -- to the best of my recollection I remember walking into the Engineering Drawing final exam and praying that the exam get over as soon as possible because I did not care what grade I got in that course, I just wanted to get over with it. I don't even remember what the final exam paper was like. I got a B in that course. For reference [here](/assets/docs/IITK_Recruitment_Guide_2019-20.pdf) is the IIT Kanpur grading system. Only, later (now actually) would I realise the value of focussing on what is at hand and working on it. I will write a separate post later on about the courses I took and my naive justifications to why I screwed up courses badly.

> Life lesson: **Don't bite more than you can chew.**

* **Do it now, or you will never be able to do it.** I wish I had the wisdom to understand that this is fundamentally wrong. The correct way to say this would be 'Do the things that you're **required** to do. Only after you do well in those try to do extraneous things'. It is never too late to learn a skill or catch up on a new programming language or a new machine learning paradigm. People are in so much hurry that they miss out on the fundamental goal of learning -- to learn, and to learn it thoroughly. Yes, I am a victim of this syndrome. I just realised it after screwing up 5 semesters. A dear professor actually summed it up beautifully. In her words, "you should first do what you're required to do. Then you can do all the side projects and the extraneous things. If you cannot do what is asked of you properly, how can you expect to do well in the extra stuff and also, what credibility does it hold?" A dear friend advised to not have "too much on your plate". The Head of Department od Electrical Engineering advised me against taking excess workload and he actually cautioned that "things do not look so well". But, I did not listen to any of that and hence suffered. I wish I could say I am sorry, but this changes nothing. Not the fact that I am average by all standards.

> Life lesson: **Do not rush. There will always be time to do the things you love.**

* **Getting involved with a number of groups always helps.** This is something that most people get wrong. I am not saying that one should not be a part of any group at all. But, personally I feel that getting associated with a varied number of groups affected me in a negative way. Of course, there are many positive things about being a part of different groups only that in my case it did more harm than good. Just to give you an idea of the groups I was associated with on campus apart from my academics in various capacities -- Counselling Service, Entrepreneurship Cell, Election Commission, Antaragni, and Techkriti. It is possible that I missed out a few. No, that's not in a single year. I used to take the non academic assignments very seriously, since you got to report things to real people and you got to explain your contribution. I am not sure what the long term repercussions of this would be, but as it stands this contributed to the killing of grades to some extent. I was more excited about non-academic stuff than academics. My alumni buddy once asked me, "If you are certain that you want to get a PhD and be a Professor, why did you get into so many things? How will helping a fest get more number of footfalls help you get into a good graduate school? How can you get deviated so much?" I had no answers to any of these. I still do not have any answer till this day. But, I want to thank him for reminding me what is important.

> Life lesson: **Focus on one thing, do it right before moving on to others.**

* **Your grades don't matter a lot.** I got this horribly wrong. I did not understand the whole business of grades until very recently. I had a hard time in the internship interviews, the (good) companies won't even shortlist me because they had specific grade cutoffs. Many people got interviews and internship offers despite of low grades but in general having a wholesome grade just opens up so many opportunities. In short, good grades makes life much easier as compared to having a poor grade. It makes sense to some extent as well. As someone who is offering you something people would like to know if you can commit to something and do meaningful work. This is one of the most under-appreciated traits, but this gives a good impression to the person offering you something -- be it a company or a professor offering research internship. Of course, there are countless other ways to show your dedication and work. But, having a good grade does not hurt at all. I made a lot of mistakes and really did not care about grades until the point where I was failing the courses. Why I got into the whole business of campus interviews for internships is another matter of discussion. I never fancied myself solely working for a company, but I got into it anyways for whatever reason. I am happy that I withdrew from the process. I mean I probably would work for a company if it's at Google Brain or Facebook AI Research or the like. But, I cannot imagine myself working for a bank or some consulting multi-national corporation.


* **Procrastination 'can kill' you.** If you are a master procrastinator like me, you probably are having a bad time in life. I feel like I cannot breathe right now. Life is so overwhelming, I procrastinate all day long. I do not know what to do anymore, I don't have a clue. I just do not want to let anyone down. I'm okay failing but I don't want to regret not trying hard enough. That being said, I should have studied more in college. I often find myself watching YouTube videos on productivity (what an irony) or I'll be surfing the web all day long! I have come to the sad realisation that all I've been doing is waste time and did not actually devote myself to getting something done. I did not study for exams on time and hence did poorly in all the exams with the exception of a few courses. I remember one time -- I had no idea what was in the course until the night before exams. I used to say to myself that it is okay, since there is a gap of 3 days before that exam so I'll get a lot of work done. However, it did not go exactly as I thought. In fact, I stayed up all night watching "Dear Zindagi" instead of studying. I could not sleep because I was too worried that I'll fail. 3 hours before the exam, something kicked in and I started memorising whatever I could. I think I got a D in that course. If there is one thing that I have learnt after all the screw ups it is this -- studying a day before the exam does not help at all, except it might get you a D instead of an F.

Things that went right (at least according to me).
* **Got to meet new, awesome people.** This probably is the only good thing that has happened in college so far. I got to meet and be friends with one of the best minds of the country. It is highly probable that the bond we all share would last a lifetime. Even though everyone has a different career trajectory, people here are generally nice and helpful. All you need to do is ask and someone or the other will help you out. I have also managed to pitch myself to three professors and none of them actually turned down my proposal. I am in a dilemma about what to do with the workload now. God! Please don't be like me.

**That's it!**

**In conclusion.** My academic life is pretty bad at this point. I wish to stabilise it by the end of my degree. I am what many would call "an average student" or "below average". That is okay! :cry: I can graduate with a decent 7+ CPI if I work hard the next year. I wish to be a professor one day and no matter what comes in life that will not change. Hence, I want to do as much as I can. I'm sure at least one university will take me for PhD. To be honest, getting into a direct PhD program seems rather impossible at this point. Read on to know more about my 'killer' plan. :grin:

> Life lesson: **Don't let peer pressure crush you. You are unique, always evaluate yourself with respect to you and you only.**

**The road ahead:** Well, now that I came to realise what all things I've done terribly I plan to get control of my life. I've realised numbers do matter in my case. You can read more about the "numbers game" [here](http://www.pgbovine.net/grades.htm). Here are some numbers just for perspective and record-keeping. The grades for 5th semester did not come in yet. But assuming the worst case scenario I'll have a CPI of 6.6 by the end of this semester. By the time I graduate I can have a CPI of 7.7 in the best case. I shall strive to get that number, but who knows what the final number would be. I've thought about a few things -- \* I am definitely going to do a Masters degree after my B.Tech. My dream is to get an M.Sc in Computer Science from Oxford and then go for a PhD. But, I do not know what the future has in store for me. I'll also try for an M.Tech in AI at IISc Bangalore.

Realising that I'm not very good at multitasking, I'll drop everything else starting January 1, 2020 and focus solely on academics. I will complete the project under Prof. Nitin Gupta as soon as possible. I will drop the project with Prof. Vipul Arora since I have come to realise that we are not a good match. Even though the problem statement sounded interesting after working on it I realised that it isn't for me. As for the project under Prof. Malakar, I will try to get as much work done as possible this month but I'll ask her for a break the upcoming semester. I really need those grades. I will restart working with her during the summers. I'll probably credit the work as an undergraduate project (UGP-3). As for my degree, I am completing it one semester ahead of schedule i.e., by December of 2020. This is because I will stay during the summer in Kanpur and do 2 courses (one regular 9 credits course + 9 credits UGP-3 = 18 credits).

That leaves me with about 54 credits to graduate, which is well within the limit of courses one is allowed to do every semester. I'll do those 54 credits in the 7th semester. Hence, I'll graduate by the 7th semester. I still haven't thought much about what I am going to do after that except that I'll apply to Oxford M.Sc in Computer Science program by January 1, 2021 and prepare for IISc admission. That's the longish term goal, in the short term I plan on getting A's in every course I do after this point. I just hope that everything go as planned. Only time would reveal what the truth is. I will either be the one who planned and nailed everything or just an 'all say and no work' guy. We'll see what is what.
**That's it for now. Thanks for reading, I appreciate it.**
