---
layout: post
title: "The price of being 21"
description: "Being 21 sucks. Trigger warning: <reddot>distressing</reddot>."
author: Debashish Reang
thumbnail: "/assets/images/21_sucks.jpg"
comments: true
tags: [thoughts]
---
Being 21 sucks. I've seen more since I turned 20, than I've ever seen before. And the worst part is that I'm not sure if this is all. None knows if the future is any brighter. This is probably the last article I'm going to write as an enrolled student at IIT Kanpur. I'm not sure what the future have in store for me, I have no idea.

The idea of a wholly online semester seems pretty bad for me. No, don't get me wrong here. I respect the decision that IIT Kanpur has taken, but it's really not going well for me. I always felt safe when I was on campus and did not fear for anything except the possibility of a bleak future. Now, when a dog barks or a branch falls down, I wake up and stay alert. I am afraid that someone might come at night and take my life from me. I don't remember what I did wrong, but it has come down to that.

Did you ever feel like you are powerless? Whatever it may be, it's just out of your reach.

Honestly, I'm happy that I graduated early. My undergraduate life was a mess. I hated my major but did not have enough good grades to switch major. It will be a lie if I say I had many friends on campus. Honestly, I don't miss anyone except the trees, my bicycle and the open air theatre. I loved walking the pavements and the corridors at night. I'll miss all that.

I'm sure they did not mean it in a bad way, but it really hurt after first year.