---
layout: post
title: "COVID-19: Is wartime language sensible to use during the pandemic?"
description: "A short essay written to meet the requirements of a course."
subtitle: "May be we shouldn't use wartime language after all."
author: "Debashish Reang"
thumbnail: "/assets/images/lockdown.jpg"
comments: true
published: false
tags: [COVID-19, wartime, ENG124A]
---

> This 300-ish words essay was submitted to meet the requirements of an HSS (Humanities & Social Sciences) course called ENG124A at IIT Kanpur.

I think the war language used by the countries is a fitting metaphor to describe the current ways of things. The pandemic has caused distress to our day-to-day activities and disrupted our economy in unprecedented scales. This is the time that the world must unite in its fight against the disease. It is important, however, that we identify the enemy and undertake war- like strategies to fight the pandemic.

Most countries, and especially the politicians and the media have resorted to the war analogy to get across their message and instil a sense of solidarity among people. With terms like ‘front-line workers’, ‘first responders’ etc. being tossed around it does seem at first sight that the world is doing a pretty good job at identifying the common enemy – ‘COVID-19’ and have proper plans of actions to fight it.

However, identifying a common enemy does not always mean that everyone on the other side is united. We have seen countries putting blames on other countries, not sharing their knowledge and resources with everybody else. The most recent news of U.S. president Donald Trump halting their contributions to the WHO is especially disheartening. Many leaders saw this pandemic as an opportunity to invoke wartime laws and concentrate power in their hands. Power misuse has been rampant in many countries since the start of the pandemic.

The pandemic has given rise to many unprecedented and unheard-of events while carrying a sense of uncertainty everywhere. The current state of the world seems really bleak and the world leaders do not appear to be helping nor are their wartime strategies working. The truth is, humanity was not ready for this pandemic and we are not ready for the next one. Everyone involved is trying to figure out what could work best for everyone along the way.
