---
layout: post
title: "College life: myths vs the truths"
description: "The good, the meh, and everything in between about college."
author: Debashish Reang
thumbnail: "/assets/images/future.jpg"
published: false
tags: [college]
---

> "Hilaa ke so ja." &mdash; an age-old adage.

* You'll still be one of the toppers. F! No! This is a <reddot>myth</reddot>.

* You'll have a lot more sex. True.

* I'll have a lot more sex. LMAO, no! <reddot>myth</reddot>.

* You'll fall in love with someone and get married to them. Probably, true.

* I'll fall in love with someone and get married to her. LOL, no! <reddot>myth</reddot>.

* Your life is set after joining IITs. Seriously? F! <reddot>myth</reddot>.

* Passion matters. Are you kidding me? This is a fucking <reddot>myth</reddot>! Most people will run after companies by the end of their final year.

* You'll study 1-2 extra hours for every lecture hour. LMAO, none does this. <reddot>myth</reddot>.

* You'll still be a sanskari kid. No shit! This is a <reddot>myth</reddot>. You'll probably start rolling joints by the end of the intership drive before your third-year summers.

* College life would be awesome for you. True.

* College life would be awesome for me. <reddot>myth</reddot>.

* You'll hit on someone from DU. A <reddot>myth</reddot>.

* "Apka katega." True af!

* You'll end up watching porn more often than you attempt assignments. True!

* You'll start 'gyaan-chodna' on Quora. Probably true.

* Freshers' night would be awesome. True for everyone but a <reddot>myth</reddot> for you.

* ELS sucks. True.

* Seniors get crores worth of packages. Welcome to the adult world. It sucks. A <reddot>myth</reddot>.

* People care about free speech, would stand up for what is right. A <reddot>myth</reddot>. Everyone just wants to swim in their comfort zone and get a hefty placement package at the end of $4^{th}$ year.

* Everyone is rational. No. This is a big lie, <reddot>myth</reddot>, whatever you want to call it.

* You'll make girlfriends and have a great life overall. A <reddot>myth</reddot>. Look at the sex ration bruh!

* You'll start drinking. True.

* I'll start drinking. A lie you tell yourself everyday. A <reddot>myth</reddot>.

* Seniors would be helpful. Meh! Probably true.

* Most people are smart. Probably a <reddot>myth</reddot>. By the time we're in final year we'd be checking sums using a calculator.

* People are more mature. <reddot>myth</reddot>.

* If you take up engineering and also expect to meet girls, you're done fucked up! A <reddot>myth</reddot>. I got into `Engineering` for some reason. Now, every time I see my gradesheet, I get an erection. Have a fun 4 years of engineering.

Does that mean you're a waste? Not really. You'll find something else that you're interested in. Be it movies, video-editing, photography, dance, music and what not. Find something you love while you can, take risks or you can follow the conventional route of "Engineering &#8594; MBA &#8594; Passion &#8594; Death."

Let me know if there is anything else that I should add. I'll update the list as I become a little less lazy. Thanks for reading. I know there are countless more, but this is all my coffee-rich brain could think of right now. I wrote everything in one sitting. Isn't that impressive?