---
layout: post
title: "Pointless but an important rant"
description: "<code>You-know-which</code> sucks."
author: Debashish Reang
thumbnail: "/assets/images/dp.jpg"
tags: [life]
---
> "Case Closed. Action has already been taken."

> "The customer's premises is 700m away from the splitter point, it is not financially viable to provide him the connection."

Those are some of the comments that I got in reply to a few complaints that I lodged. The first one was in connection to me being homeless (that's a dramatic way of saying I don't have a place to live that I can call my own). I don't know what action they took and what they investigated but we don't live that house for the fear that someone will break into the house threatening to kill people.

There was a power cut of about 2 hours a few hours ago, my sister who was deep asleep by then woke up and came to my room saying she's scared in the dark. Every dog bark, every falling of tree branches is scary as shit, you never know when someone breaks into your house.
I have not done anyone any harm during the last 21 years, but I won't be surprised if someone robs me at gunpoint or worse stab me and leave. I wish the headlines were along the lines of, "Something bad happened to this family during the night, puchta hai Bharat kya hua inko? Kisne kiya kaand?" instead of the funny TRP-rich headlines that you are so accustomed to seeing these days.

You are ready to pay for services but these people won't provide you service for the fear of losses. It seems like they are doing me a favor rather than doing their duties. So much for being a superpower.
If someone threatens to kill you or breaks into your house, you'll at least expect the culprits to be caught right? and be given some sort of protection by the state. Apparently, that's not what you get in 21st century India. Instead, you get constant anxiety from the fear of being attacked by someone.

People in other countries are talking about equal pay for all, healthcare for all, climate change, and everything else. Where I live, staying outside past 7 is almost a call to danger. Doesn't matter what you are what you believe in, you just shouldn't stay out that long. Ambulances won't run because there is not enough fuel for the cars to start. There is not enough hospital staff, in fact, there are not enough hospitals in Tripura, be it public or private. As far as I know, there are only one or two private hospitals in the entire state.

With each passing day, it seems like nothing ever works in this country. And these uncles and aunties would ask you if you plan on joining the civil services or the state civil services. No aunty, I wish to leave this place as soon as I can for a place that has a safe enough locality and a good healthcare system. That's what I want to do. Can you imagine the next generation of Reang living in the same place? I can't and would do everything in my power to make sure I move out of here ASAP.

I tell my friends jokingly, at times, that COVID-19 is the least of worries. Somewhere underneath it, there is the bitter truth hidden. Try living with the constant feeling of maybe tonight's the night something bad will happen. As soon as night falls, that's the thing you think instead of assignments or the lectures that are due. Honestly, I wish to graduate from IITK as soon as I can, go to another place to study for a few more years and then move out of this place, forever.

Add to that the constant turmoil in human families. I wonder why humans must be a part of some family. Would have been a lot easier if everyone handled their shit. But, I guess it does not work that way. Life truly sucks at times. If you text me sometime later I might be happy af. Mood sucks too. And oh, this place sucks as well. Big time sucker.

Don't be surprised the next time you see something awful on the internet. Sometimes, I wonder how we've gotten here as a society. Whatever is happening around us is very disheartening but not surprising at all. The so-called think-tanks would go on TV and discuss brain drain or whatever they call it these days. Why is that the "good people" leave the country and only a tiny minority come back? I think if you fix your system so that more people see opportunities and can feel safe enough to live, maybe the next generation will choose to stay here.