---
layout: post
title: "Wouldn't it be better?"
description: "A collection of a few thoughts conjured over a cup of midnight coffee."
author: Debashish Reang
thumbnail: "/assets/images/just_saying.png"
comments: true
tags: [thoughts]
draft: true
---

Hey! I hope you're doing great and that you and your family members are safe. Keep taking care of yourself and your loved ones.

This article is just a collection of thoughts that I had over a cup of late night coffee and discussions with friends. I'll add to this list as and when more thoughts come to mind.

Where do I start? Let's start with the issue of reservations. You should close this tab if talks about reservation makes you uncomfortable. I think those who are questioning the merits of reservation don't realise that equality and equity are not the same. You can't just say, "Well you are now financially well off, so let's take you off the system of reservation." I think it's more about representation. Think about this -- Wouldn't it be better if we had diverse representation in different fields? Our country would be much better off if we had diverse representation in every field.

There are many wrong things going on in the country -- rape, poverty, domestic violence, religious tension, the issue of law and order etc. The list goes on and on. You don't speak out against any of these. I doubt that some of you all even care about any of these. But, the moment you can't get into IIT Bombay CSE, you're like, "That's it, motherfucker! I'll write about you on Facebook." 

I don't think any of you have any real commitment for progress or upliftment of these marginalized communities. You are just propagating anti-reservation sentiments just so people you see favourably can get ahead. I don't think the reservation system is 100% fair or effective, of course it is not! But, does that mean we should get rid of it? I don't think so. You're just saying, "Let's get rid of reservations because inequity isn't as bad as it used to be."

See, 200 additional seats reserved for girls doesn't mean that those 200 girls are eating into the seats of the deserving candidates. It's as simple as creating 200 seats for girls, so that we can have more representation in the system. You can't keep churning out the same set of people out of the system for decades. 

Now you might say, "Wait, shouldn't people get into colleges purely based on merit?" And, I'd say you're right. Sure, people should be allowed to study in colleges purely based on merit. Except, you have made the assumption that everyone has a level playing field in the first place. As much as you hate it, our beautiful country has huge inequities in terms of opportunities, wealth, and in fact almost everything imaginable. How can you expect a level playing field when a section of the society has had a head start in everything and the other section has been deprived for decades?

You cannot have a fair race when you give everyone a 100 metre head start and expect the last guy to catch up. That's not how things should work. 

Next, I think IIT Kanpur should change the name 'Mess Establishment Charge' to something else. I mean, it's been more than 60 years since its inception and they're still establishing the mess? How hilarious is that! I'm not asking them to stop charging the fees used for keeping the mess neat, sighs, just because of that silly name, no. I guess they should name it to something like Hostel Goods and Services Tax (HGST), just like GST. That makes much more sense, right? 
